# Introduction
  Motorcycles, by their nature, are far less safe than close-door vehicles such as cars, trucks etc, when it comes to accidents. Even a low-speed crash can become a deadly one. The physical and mental skills required to operate a motorcycle are far more different and complex than close-door vehicles. They are also less stable, and less visible to other pedestrians and closed-door vehicles. A common accident scenario is a car rear-ending a motorcycle that is stopped at a traffic light. It is often said by the drivers that they did not notice the motorcycle standing there. Due to these circumstances, our group decided to develop technology that will help increase the chances of preparing and protecting the rider from possible accidents. 

  In order to create this technology, we will be implementing BLUETOOTH, and LIDAR technology. Two lidar sensors with cameras will be mounted to the front and back of the motorcycle, these devices will be inner-connected to a raspberry-pie, which will implement bluetooth technology to connect to our mobile application. Our application will take data from the sensors, and warn the rider if they’re about to get rear ended. If the rider can not avoid the collision, the sensor will calculate the amount of force that was on impact, and depending on how much, the device will send out a distress call to a list of contacts and save crucial data such as video, speed and location of accident.

# Project Design
	From a systematic explanation, we will have a raspberry pie, which will connect to LIDAR sensors, along with a LIDAR camera sensor. These LIDAR sensors will calculate a collision by taking the distance of an object and the time it took to get closer to the user. When these calculations begin, the LIDAR camera will also begin to record, allowing the option to store that video, for use of evidence if there was a collision. At the same time, there will be an android application, this application will be sending the raspberry pie the current speed of the user, so it can be compared to the current speed of the potential threat, for a better calculation of the possible impact. The android app will connect to the raspberry pie via bluetooth, allowing there to be a wireless connection between the two devices, so the mobile device can properly be mounted in front of the motorcycle. Below is an explanation of each process, in further detail. 
